Welcome to the CTA200H wiki!

This course is for summer undergraduates performing research in astrophysics at University of Toronto, including but not limited to participants in UoT's Summer Undergraduate Research Program (or SURP). The goal is to provide training to help students be successful with the computation aspects of their summer research program.

===Logistics===
The course will run every afternoon from '''1:00pm to 5:00pm''', from '''Tuesday May 2''' to '''Friday May 12''' in McLennan annex room 257 (the annex is the building to the north of McLennan tower).
This 4-hour block will be split into two hours of lecture followed by two hours of tutorial time, in which students will work on their course homework.

Location: The course will be held both in person and remotely, via zoom, with access to CITA computers via ssh/tunnel, or via VNC Remote Desktop
[https://wiki.cita.utoronto.ca/index.php/VNC_Remote_Desktop (link to VNC instructions here)]

===Instructors===
*Course coordinator: Norm Murray -- murray at cita utoronto ca
*Tutorial TA: Shivan Khullar
*Lecturers:
**Norman Murray--
**Janosz Dewberrry--
**Sam Hadden--


===Timetable & Lecture Topics===
This is a list of dates and topics for the course. (Preliminary -- subject to change.) 

{| class="wikitable"
|-
|Date
|Instructor
|Topic
|-
|1. Tue May 2
|Norm Murray
|[[Lecture 1 |Using the CITA Systems, Linux and Git]]
|-
|2. Wed May 3
|Norm
|[https://github.com/CITA/CTA200H/tree/master/lecture_2_python_intro Python Language Intro and Workflow]
|-
|3. Thu May 4
|Sam Hadden
|[https://github.com/CITA/CTA200H/tree/master/lecture_6_symbolic_python Symbolic Computation]
|-
|4. Fri May 5
|Janosz Dewberry
|[https://github.com/CITA/CTA200H/tree/master/lecture_4_numerical_python Numerical Computing]
|-
|5. Mon May 8 
|Norm
|[https://github.com/CITA/CTA200H/tree/master/lecture_3_managing_code Structuring Your Projects]
|-
|6. Tue May 9
|Norm
|[https://github.com/CITA/CTA200H/tree/master/lecture_6_statistics Statistics and Data Analysis Tools (Carl-Johan Haster)]
|-
|7. Wed May 10
| Norm
|[https://github.com/CITA/CTA200H/tree/master/lecture_7_data_wrangling Data IO/Data Manipulation (Mubdi Rahman) ]
|-
|8. Th May 11
|Norm
|[https://github.com/CITA/CTA200H/tree/master/lecture_8_monte_carlo Monte Carlo Methods (Carl-Johan Haster)]
|-
|9. Fri May 12
|Norm
|[https://github.com/CITA/CTA200H/tree/master/lecture_9_machine_learning Machine Learning (Dan Tamayo)]
|-

===Marking Scheme===
The mark will be determined on the basis of three items:

{| class="wikitable"
|-
|1. Class participation:
|10%
|-
|2. Homework: 
|40%
|-
|3. Project:
|50%
|-
|}

===Homeworks===
In the first week students will work on homework problems related to the first week's lectures.  For the second week they will work on a week-long project that will be closely related to the research they do for the rest of the summer.  They will hand in their results for this project at the end of the course.

The problem set will be divided into smaller assignments to be handed in every couple of days. Assignments will be posted here once announced.

===Project===
In the second week students will work on a project supplied either by their supervisor or the instructor. The project is due by noon, Monday May 22nd

[[Project Instructions and Template|https://github.com/CITA/CTA200H/tree/master/projects]]


===Using the System===
To download all course material to your computer:

'''git clone git@github.com:CITA/CTA200H.git'''